All right. We've come a long way,
connected a lots of different tools,
and are set up in our local environment with a local blockchain.
Hopefully, everything has worked out on your end so far.
If so, you're ready to start working with transactions.
In the last video, I went over transactions at a high level,
and in this video, we'll make one for ourselves.
This will be a long video but there's a lot
of fun things to go over and I hope you'll learn a lot.
By the end, you'll be able to setup transactions for yourself.
Down below the video, you'll see all the code I have on my screen right now.
If you want to follow along,
paste this into your own editor.
I'll walk through every line to help us get more comfortable with what you're looking at.
So, what's going on here?
Well, what I'm trying to do is make a transaction between two accounts.
To do that, there's a few main things that need to happen.
First, I need to bring in the dependencies
and set up my connection between Web3 and Ganache.
That's the part we already know.
From there, we can look at the larger flags I've put to see what the main goals are.
I'll need to set up the accounts,
then I'll create the transaction.
Next, I'll sign the transaction,
and finally, I'll send that transaction to the network.
I also put comments on each line to describe what they do in more detail.
For now, I'll take out most of what's here and start from the top.
We'll rebuild this as we go.
To start, let's get into dependencies.
Something you haven't seen here yet is ethereumjs-tx.
I put a link to the documentation down below the video, if you want to learn more.
But basically, it's a module for creating,
manipulating, and signing Ethereum transactions.
That's exactly what we're doing,
so this can definitely help us out.
To install it to your project,
type npm install ethereumjs-tx from your terminal.
Everything else here you've seen before,
so I'll move on to setting up the accounts.
For this, I created variables for a sending address and a receiving address.
That's just because I think it'll help keep the code organized for us when starting out.
There's nothing saying that the receiving address here
couldn't just send money right back to the sending address,
they're just two addresses that can transact with one another.
So, when you're comfortable,
you could change this back to something like address one and address two, if you like.
What you need to do is get two addresses
from your local blockchain and place them in here.
These will be the two addresses that take part in the transaction.
Choose whichever you like.
Next, just to make sure we're set up,
I'll console.log each of these and run
the file to check if we get the balance of each address.
Great. It looks like we're all set up.
Now, we can move on to creating the transaction.
To create a transaction,
you set a variable raw transaction equal
to an object that contains the fields we mentioned earlier.
Here, I have a nonce, to,
gasPrice, gasLimit, value, and data.
I'm leaving the data field blank for now because we're making
a transaction between externally owned accounts.
This field would be important if you're making
a transaction to a contract account, which you could do later.
The gas price and limit are the cost of sending the transaction.
I chose these values, but you'll learn more about gas
and managing the costs of transactions later in the program.
The nonce is the transaction number,
so I'll start with zero,
and I'll send 100 way.
Now, we're all set up with our transaction.
You can view the transaction in the terminal, if you'd like.
Try checking the balance again of the sending and receiving address.
What you'll notice is that nothing changed.
That's because we've built the transaction,
but we never signed it or sent it to the network.
So, let's start doing that now.
The goal here is to sign the transaction using the private key of the sender.
Remember, in transactions, they always need
to be signed by the private key of the sender.
So, we're just doing that here.
To do that, we'll need to get the sender's private key.
In the Ganache Graphic User Interface,
you can do that by clicking the key over here on the right, then copying the key.
Make sure you choose the private key for the address you set as the sender.
If you're in the command line interface,
you'll just see the private keys listed below the account addresses.
Now, we need to do some maintenance with our data.
To sign a transaction,
you'll need to use a hex value of the private key.
So, we'll need to make that conversion.
You can do that using a buffer, it's shown here.
Next, you create a transaction variable and set it to
a new Ethereum transaction that passes in the raw transaction you created above.
Finally, you get to sign the transaction.
To do that, run sign on the transaction variable you created,
and pass in the hex value of the sender you created here.
That's everything we need to sign a transaction.
Take some time to work through this for yourself a couple of times to get used to it.
It's definitely a little tough at first.
Keep in mind that all we tried to do here was
sign the transaction with the private key of the sender.
To wrap this all up, let's send the transaction to the network.
Like always, you can't just send the data the way it is,
you have to change it so that things can be complicated.
In this case, we'll need to serialize it first.
You can do that by running transaction.serialize and
setting that equal to a variable named serialized transaction.
For the last line, we'll finally bring Web3 back into
this and send the signed transaction to the network.
Remember, Web3 hasn't been involved with a lot of this so far,
it only gets involved when you're sending a transaction to the network,
which is what we're doing now.
To do that, use the send signed transaction method from the
web3.eth module and pass in the serialized transaction,
and that's it, you're all done.
We can run this code to make the transaction go through.
In your terminal, type node index.js.
Once you do that, you can go back to Ganache and check out the transaction you just made.
For one, you can see it in the logs.
I can see mine right here.
You can also see it in the transactions.
Here, it shows who was in the transaction,
how much gas was used,
and the value of the gas that was sent.
Also, note that the block number has incremented.
You can see that over here.
That'll go up for each transaction you make.
You can see all these blocks over on the blocks tab.
Finally, on the accounts page,
you'll see that the transaction went through.
One thing you might find odd is that the balance hasn't changed.
That's because we sent wei,
which is a much smaller denomination of ether.
So small that the two decimal places provided here don't even register it.
I did that just to keep the numbers small at first,
but try sending a much larger amount for yourself to see the balance change.
Or using Web3 from your terminal,
you can search the balance of the account to see it in wei.
So, before going and making transactions for yourself,
I did want to mention one more thing.
If you go back and try to run another transaction,
you'll get an error that says the transaction doesn't have the right nonce.
That's because the nonce should continue to
increment with each new transaction that's sent.
We started with the nonce of zero,
but we need that to go up for every time we send a transaction.
So, for now, just go ahead and change
that nonce every time you want to make a transaction.
That's enough to get started and I'll show you how to fix it
without doing it manually soon. All right.
So, that's everything. This was a long video,
but hopefully you learned a ton about creating transactions.
Throughout the video, you created a transaction, signed it,
send it to the network,
and looked at the result of the transactions in Ganache.
You can use this same idea to continue sending transactions on
your local blockchain or by changing the connection to something like Infuria,
you can make connections to the main or test networks as well
as between externally owned accounts or contract accounts.
Hopefully, this was enough to get you started.
Good luck on making your own transactions.